doc/migrating-between-development-versions.md, before:

Title: Migrating between development versions
Slug: migrating-between-development-versions

# Migrating between development versions

This guide outlines the differences between Libadwaita development releases.
It assumes you've already migrated from Libhandy 1.4 to Libadwaita, or you
created a new project using a development release of Libadwaita.

If you want to migrate from Libhandy 1.4 to the latest Libadwaita release,
[follow this guide](migrating-libhandy-1-4-to-libadwaita.html).

## Migrating from alpha 1 to alpha 2

### Adapt to view switcher API Changes

[class@Adw.ViewSwitcher], [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherBar] and
[class@Adw.ViewSwitcherTitle] now use [class@Adw.ViewStack] instead of
[class@Gtk.Stack].

You should stop using [property@Gtk.Stack:transition-type] and
[property@Gtk.Stack:transition-duration] properties before switching to
[class@Adw.ViewStack].

### Adapt to Stylesheet Changes

The public colors `@theme_selected_bg_color` and `@theme_selected_fg_color` have
been renamed to `@accent_bg_color` and `@accent_fg_color`.

If you were using `@theme_selected_bg_color` as a text color, use
`@accent_color` instead to make sure the text is readable. You can also use the
`.accent` style class to apply the correct color.

## Migrating from alpha 2 to alpha 3

### Stop Using `AdwValueObject` with non-string values

`AdwValueObject` has been removed. The typical use for storing strings in
combination with [class@Gio.ListStore] can be replaced by using
[class@Gtk.StringList], others cases can be replaced by creating your own
objects to store those values .

### Adapt to `AdwEnumValueObject` API Changes

`AdwEnumValueObject` has been renamed to [class@Adw.EnumListItem].

### Adapt to window API changes

The `child` property in [class@Adw.Window] and [class@Adw.ApplicationWindow] has
been renamed to `content`.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.Leaflet] API changes

The `hhomogeneous-folded`, `vhomogeneous-folded`, `hhomogeneous-unfolded`,
and `vhomogeneous-unfolded` properties have been replaced by a single
[property@Adw.Leaflet:homogeneous] property, set to `TRUE` by default,
applied when the leaflet is folded for the opposite orientation.

When unfolded, children are never homogeneous. Use [class@Gtk.SizeGroup]
to make them homogeneous if needed.

The `interpolate-size` property has been removed with no replacement, it's
always enabled when [property@Adw.Leaflet:homogeneous] is set to `FALSE`.

### Adapt to view switcher API changes

The `auto` view switcher policy has been removed. [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] only
has narrow and wide policies; if you had used the `auto` policy, use an
[class@Adw.Squeezer] with two view switchers inside.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] API Changes

The "narrow-ellipsize" property has been removed. Narrow view switchers always
ellipsize their labels, wide switchers never do.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherBar] API Changes

The "policy" property has been removed. If you had used it, use a plain
[class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] in a [class@Gtk.ActionBar] instead.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherTitle] API Changes

The "policy" property has been removed, the behavior is similar to the removed
`auto` policy. If you had used `wide` or `narrow` policies, use an
[class@Adw.Squeezer] with an [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] and an
[class@Adw.WindowTitle] inside, with the switcher having the desired policy.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.Avatar] API Changes

The `adw_avatar_draw_to_pixbuf()` function have been removed, use the newly
added [method@Adw.Avatar.draw_to_texture] instead. [class@Gdk.Texture]
implements [iface@Gio.Icon], so it should just work for that case.

[method@Adw.Avatar.draw_to_texture] does not have the `size` parameter. Instead,
it uses the avatar's current size, with no replacement.

### Use [class@Adw.StyleManager] instead of [property@Gtk.Settings:gtk-application-prefer-dark-theme]

Using [property@Gtk.Settings:gtk-application-prefer-dark-theme] to control dark
appearance is not supported anymore, set [property@Adw.StyleManager:color-scheme]
to `ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_PREFER_DARK` and make sure the application can work with
light appearance as well. If that's not possible, set it to or
`ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_FORCE_DARK` instead.

If your application is using light appearance, make sure it works wit dark
appearance as well, or set the color scheme to `ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_FORCE_LIGHT`
otherwise.

### Adapt to Stylesheet Changes

#### Adapt to Header Bar, Action Bar and Toolbar Style Changes

When possible, buttons in [class@Gtk.HeaderBar] and [class@Gtk.ActionBar] will
use flat appearance by default.

The following rules are used when deciding when to make buttons flat or not:

The following buttons get flat appearance:

* Icon-only buttons;
* Buttons with an icon and a label (using [class@Adw.ButtonContent]);
* Menu buttons containing an arrow;
* [class@Adw.SplitButton];
* Any other button with the `.flat` style class.

The following buttons keep default appearance:

* Text-only buttons;
* Buttons with other content;
* Buttons within widgets containing the `.linked` style class;
* Buttons with the `.suggested-action` or `.destructive-action` style classes.
* Buttons with the `.raised` style class.

It's important to avoid ambiguous layouts, for example text-only buttons with
no icon, since such a button would be indistinguishable from the window title
without hovering it.

In rare cases, the existing layout may need a redesign to work with the new
style.

The same rules are also used for the `.toolbar` style class now, instead of
making every button appear flat.

#### Adjusting Icon+Arrow Menu Buttons

If you had menu buttons containing an icon and a dropdown arrow, switch to
[property@Gtk.MenuButton:icon-name] and set the
[property@Gtk.MenuButton:always-show-arrow] property to `TRUE`.

#### Adjusting Text-only Buttons

If you had text-only buttons, consider using [class@Adw.ButtonContent]. For
example, the following button:

```xml
<object class="GtkButton">
  <property name="label" translatable="yes">_Open</property>
  <property name="use-underline">True</property>
</object>
```

can be changed into:

```xml
<object class="GtkButton">
  <property name="child">
    <object class="AdwButtonContent">
      <property name="icon-name">document-open-symbolic</property>
      <property name="label" translatable="yes">_Open</property>
      <property name="use-underline">True</property>
    </object>
  </property>
</object>
```

One exception are the two primary buttons in a dialog, for example, "Cancel" and
"Open". Those buttons should retain their default appearance.

#### Adjusting Split Buttons

If you had split buttons implemented via a `GtkBox` with the `.linked` style
class and two buttons packed inside, use `AdwSplitButton` as follows:

```xml
<object class="AdwSplitButton">
  <property name="menu-model">some_menu</property>
  <property name="icon-name">view-list-symbolic</property>
</object>
```

#### Adjusting Linked Buttons

For other linked together buttons, simply stop linking them.

If multiple linked groups were used to separate different groups of actions,
insert extra spacing as follows:

```xml
<object class="GtkSeparator">
  <style>
    <class name="spacer"/>
  </style>
</object>
```

#### Custom adjustments

The `.flat` and `.raised` style classes can always be used to override the
default appearance.

Important: the [property@Gtk.Button:has-frame] property will **not** be set to
`FALSE` when a button gets the flat appearance automatically. It also cannot be
set to `TRUE` to make a button raised, the style class should be used directly
instead.

## Migrating from alpha 3 to alpha 4

### Adapt to [class@Adw.ActionRow] API Changes

The "use-underline" property and its accessors have been removed. Use
[property@Adw.PreferencesRow:use-underline] and its accessors instead.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.ExpanderRow] API Changes

The "use-underline" property and its accessors have been removed. Use
[property@Adw.PreferencesRow:use-underline] and its accessors instead.

The `adw_expander_row_add ()` function has been renamed to `adw_expander_row_add_row ()`.

Commit message:

action-row: Enable markup on the labels
Update migration guide. Merge action row and expander row sections into one
as they are copies of each other and both need to be updated.

doc/migrating-between-development-versions.md, after:

Title: Migrating between development versions
Slug: migrating-between-development-versions

# Migrating between development versions

This guide outlines the differences between Libadwaita development releases.
It assumes you've already migrated from Libhandy 1.4 to Libadwaita, or you
created a new project using a development release of Libadwaita.

If you want to migrate from Libhandy 1.4 to the latest Libadwaita release,
[follow this guide](migrating-libhandy-1-4-to-libadwaita.html).

## Migrating from alpha 1 to alpha 2

### Adapt to view switcher API Changes

[class@Adw.ViewSwitcher], [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherBar] and
[class@Adw.ViewSwitcherTitle] now use [class@Adw.ViewStack] instead of
[class@Gtk.Stack].

You should stop using [property@Gtk.Stack:transition-type] and
[property@Gtk.Stack:transition-duration] properties before switching to
[class@Adw.ViewStack].

### Adapt to Stylesheet Changes

The public colors `@theme_selected_bg_color` and `@theme_selected_fg_color` have
been renamed to `@accent_bg_color` and `@accent_fg_color`.

If you were using `@theme_selected_bg_color` as a text color, use
`@accent_color` instead to make sure the text is readable. You can also use the
`.accent` style class to apply the correct color.

## Migrating from alpha 2 to alpha 3

### Stop Using `AdwValueObject` with non-string values

`AdwValueObject` has been removed. The typical use for storing strings in
combination with [class@Gio.ListStore] can be replaced by using
[class@Gtk.StringList], others cases can be replaced by creating your own
objects to store those values .

### Adapt to `AdwEnumValueObject` API Changes

`AdwEnumValueObject` has been renamed to [class@Adw.EnumListItem].

### Adapt to window API changes

The `child` property in [class@Adw.Window] and [class@Adw.ApplicationWindow] has
been renamed to `content`.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.Leaflet] API changes

The `hhomogeneous-folded`, `vhomogeneous-folded`, `hhomogeneous-unfolded`,
and `vhomogeneous-unfolded` properties have been replaced by a single
[property@Adw.Leaflet:homogeneous] property, set to `TRUE` by default,
applied when the leaflet is folded for the opposite orientation.

When unfolded, children are never homogeneous. Use [class@Gtk.SizeGroup]
to make them homogeneous if needed.

The `interpolate-size` property has been removed with no replacement, it's
always enabled when [property@Adw.Leaflet:homogeneous] is set to `FALSE`.

### Adapt to view switcher API changes

The `auto` view switcher policy has been removed. [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] only
has narrow and wide policies; if you had used the `auto` policy, use an
[class@Adw.Squeezer] with two view switchers inside.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] API Changes

The "narrow-ellipsize" property has been removed. Narrow view switchers always
ellipsize their labels, wide switchers never do.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherBar] API Changes

The "policy" property has been removed. If you had used it, use a plain
[class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] in a [class@Gtk.ActionBar] instead.

#### Adapt to [class@Adw.ViewSwitcherTitle] API Changes

The "policy" property has been removed, the behavior is similar to the removed
`auto` policy. If you had used `wide` or `narrow` policies, use an
[class@Adw.Squeezer] with an [class@Adw.ViewSwitcher] and an
[class@Adw.WindowTitle] inside, with the switcher having the desired policy.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.Avatar] API Changes

The `adw_avatar_draw_to_pixbuf()` function have been removed, use the newly
added [method@Adw.Avatar.draw_to_texture] instead. [class@Gdk.Texture]
implements [iface@Gio.Icon], so it should just work for that case.

[method@Adw.Avatar.draw_to_texture] does not have the `size` parameter. Instead,
it uses the avatar's current size, with no replacement.

### Use [class@Adw.StyleManager] instead of [property@Gtk.Settings:gtk-application-prefer-dark-theme]

Using [property@Gtk.Settings:gtk-application-prefer-dark-theme] to control dark
appearance is not supported anymore, set [property@Adw.StyleManager:color-scheme]
to `ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_PREFER_DARK` and make sure the application can work with
light appearance as well. If that's not possible, set it to or
`ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_FORCE_DARK` instead.

If your application is using light appearance, make sure it works wit dark
appearance as well, or set the color scheme to `ADW_COLOR_SCHEME_FORCE_LIGHT`
otherwise.

### Adapt to Stylesheet Changes

#### Adapt to Header Bar, Action Bar and Toolbar Style Changes

When possible, buttons in [class@Gtk.HeaderBar] and [class@Gtk.ActionBar] will
use flat appearance by default.

The following rules are used when deciding when to make buttons flat or not:

The following buttons get flat appearance:

* Icon-only buttons;
* Buttons with an icon and a label (using [class@Adw.ButtonContent]);
* Menu buttons containing an arrow;
* [class@Adw.SplitButton];
* Any other button with the `.flat` style class.

The following buttons keep default appearance:

* Text-only buttons;
* Buttons with other content;
* Buttons within widgets containing the `.linked` style class;
* Buttons with the `.suggested-action` or `.destructive-action` style classes.
* Buttons with the `.raised` style class.

It's important to avoid ambiguous layouts, for example text-only buttons with
no icon, since such a button would be indistinguishable from the window title
without hovering it.

In rare cases, the existing layout may need a redesign to work with the new
style.

The same rules are also used for the `.toolbar` style class now, instead of
making every button appear flat.

#### Adjusting Icon+Arrow Menu Buttons

If you had menu buttons containing an icon and a dropdown arrow, switch to
[property@Gtk.MenuButton:icon-name] and set the
[property@Gtk.MenuButton:always-show-arrow] property to `TRUE`.

#### Adjusting Text-only Buttons

If you had text-only buttons, consider using [class@Adw.ButtonContent]. For
example, the following button:

```xml
<object class="GtkButton">
  <property name="label" translatable="yes">_Open</property>
  <property name="use-underline">True</property>
</object>
```

can be changed into:

```xml
<object class="GtkButton">
  <property name="child">
    <object class="AdwButtonContent">
      <property name="icon-name">document-open-symbolic</property>
      <property name="label" translatable="yes">_Open</property>
      <property name="use-underline">True</property>
    </object>
  </property>
</object>
```

One exception are the two primary buttons in a dialog, for example, "Cancel" and
"Open". Those buttons should retain their default appearance.

#### Adjusting Split Buttons

If you had split buttons implemented via a `GtkBox` with the `.linked` style
class and two buttons packed inside, use `AdwSplitButton` as follows:

```xml
<object class="AdwSplitButton">
  <property name="menu-model">some_menu</property>
  <property name="icon-name">view-list-symbolic</property>
</object>
```

#### Adjusting Linked Buttons

For other linked together buttons, simply stop linking them.

If multiple linked groups were used to separate different groups of actions,
insert extra spacing as follows:

```xml
<object class="GtkSeparator">
  <style>
    <class name="spacer"/>
  </style>
</object>
```

#### Custom adjustments

The `.flat` and `.raised` style classes can always be used to override the
default appearance.

Important: the [property@Gtk.Button:has-frame] property will **not** be set to
`FALSE` when a button gets the flat appearance automatically. It also cannot be
set to `TRUE` to make a button raised, the style class should be used directly
instead.

## Migrating from alpha 3 to alpha 4

### Adapt to [class@Adw.ActionRow] and [class@Adw.ExpanderRow] API Changes

The "use-underline" property and its accessors have been removed. Use
[property@Adw.PreferencesRow:use-underline] and its accessors instead.

The title and subtitle have markup enabled, make sure to escape it with
[func@GLib.markup_escape_text] if this is unwanted.

### Adapt to [class@Adw.ExpanderRow] API Changes

The `adw_expander_row_add ()` function has been renamed to `adw_expander_row_add_row ()`.
